
from: Juan Cole

Among those who discouraged a literalist approach to scripture 
interpretation was Baha'u'llah Himself. I am posting my provisional 
translation of Baha'u'llah's "Commentary on the Surah of the Sun" along 
with a brief introduction, in an effort to open up the discussion. The 
translation is only provisional; an earlier version of it was kindly 
published by the preeminent Baha'i scholar Stephen Lambden in his *Baha'i 
Studies Bulletin*, under the auspices of the NSA of the UK; I think the 
translation is good enough to form the basis of some discussions here, 
but the friends should please remember that it is provisional. 

cheers Juan Cole, History, Univ. of Michigan 

Baha'u'llah's "Commentary on the Surah of the Sun" 
Introduction and Provisional Translation 
by 
Juan R.I. Cole

Qur'an commentary proved an important literary genre in 
Shaykhism, Babism, and the early Baha'i Faith, the three religious traditions 
that formed the matrix for the emergence of the modern Baha'i community. 
One perspicacious observer has already drawn attention to the paradox 
implicit in Babi scripture consisting in part of commentary on previous 
scripture. Although such commentary played a considerably less 
important role in Baha'u'llah's writings, some Qur'an commentary (Tafsir) 
does occur in them. Here I would like to bring attention to a central text 
for this issue, Baha'u'llah's commentary on Surah 91 of the Qur'an, "The 
Sun" (ash­Shams). Obviously, where Baha'u'llah himself says something 
about how one should go about interpreting scripture, the Baha'! 
commentator must take it extremely seriously. Yet this Arabic Tablet, 
written during the `Akka period, has not to my knowledge been discussed 
in Baha'! literature. Muhyi'd­Din Sabri, the Kurdish­Egyptian intellectual 
who undertook an important compilation of Baha'u'llah's Tablets and 
published them in Cairo in 1920, thought the commentary so important that 
he placed it first in the book. In this work, Baha'u'llah sets out some 
general guidelines for commenting on scripture, and I offer a translation of 
it in Appendix II below, with some brief comments here. 
Before turning to the hermeneutical and exegetical principles 
elaborated by Baha'u'llah in his brief commentary on the Surah of the Sun, 
written at the request of one of the Ottoman ulama, some of this tablet's 
general features should be mentioned. First, the reader will be struck by 
the eloquence of Baha'u'llah's Arabic. Unlike his Baghdad and Edirne 
works, this piece completely conforms to the conventions of standard 
nineteenth­century Arabic, showing neither the Persian grammatical 
influences we find elsewhere nor the Dadaist, Babi disdain for conventional 
grammar apparent in some earlier works. Some of its passages display a 
fine literary flair, such as Baha'u'llah's satirical description of how the 
sciences of rhetoric and grammar cultivated in Muslim polite society had 
caused him so much grief. 
My main interest in this tablet, however, derives from the manner in 
which Baha'u'llah expresses himself on how he thinks scripture commentary 
should be carried out. He shows himself altogether opposed to literalism 
and what we might now call fundamentalism. "Know thou," Baha'u'llah 
writes in this Tablet, "that whoso clingeth to the outward sense of the 
words, leaving aside their esoteric significance, is simply ignorant." One 
has only to examine classical Qur'an commentaries such as that of al­ 
Baydawi, to see such an exoteric approach at work. For al­Baydawi, the 
sun is the sun is the sun. On the other hand, Baha'u'llah has equally little 
patience with those mystics or sectarians who wholly neglect the plain, 
commonsense meaning of scripture in favor of wild, unanchored flights of 
speculation. "Only the one," he concludes, "who interpreteth the verses 
esoterically while harmonizing this reading with their literal meaning 
can be 
said to be a complete scholar." The Muslim civilization had developed an 
elaborate apparatus for understanding the literal or outward (az­zahir) 
meaning of a verse of scripture. It included the study of Arabic grammar, 
lexicology, and rhetoric so that the commentator could be sure he 
understood the structural place of the various elements in the verse. That 
is, the scholar had to take into account syntax and morphology, as well as 
seeking the meaning of obscure words in parallel usages in pre­Islamic 
poetry. The commentator also attempted to put the chapters of the Qur'an 
in chronological order and studied their context in the biographies of the 
Prophet and in a literature known as "occasions of revelation" (asbab an­ 
nuzul). Baha'u'llah clearly requires that commentators attain such 
linguistic 
and historical competency, all of which is required for an understanding of 
the verse's outward meaning. 
The outward sense of the verse must not be disregarded in 
Baha'u'llah's view. In his Most Holy Book, he castigated those who 
performed an esoteric exegesis (ta'wil) on revealed verses, accusing them 
of corrupting the word of God. An entire disregard for the literal, 
commonsense meaning of scripture would open the door, after all, for 
antinomianism. Baha'u'llah, weary of the endless parade of Babi 
manifestations of God, at one point in the Most Holy Book declares 
himself the last prophet who will arise for at least 1,000 years. Yet Babis 
were nothing if not clever in matters of numerology, and he felt it necessary 
specifically to forbid believers to interpret this verse in anything but 
a literal 
manner, excluding esoteric exegesis or ta'wil. He feared that too 
subjective an approach to hermeneutics could harm his religion, especially 
if applied to matters of law and authority. 
On the other hand, an exegesis concerned wholly with details of 
grammar and items of lexicology could only deaden the soul. In his 
commentary on the Surah of the Sun, Baha'u'llah goes beyond such dry 
exercises in pedantry, advising exegetes to set up a tension between the 
outward and the manifold subjective meanings of scriptural verses, and let 
them play off one another. Here, it seems to me, the cultural tradition in 
which Baha'u'llah stood, of Persian mysticism and gnosticism, resonates 
rather nicely with aspects of contemporary postmodernism. Baha'u'llah 
completely rejected the primacy of common­sense or positivist approaches 
to meaning. A proposition, in his view, had many potential meanings, tens 
of them, not just a single literal one. Some might prefer to think of this 
stance as the positing of "polyvalence," or many levels of meaning, in 
scripture. Others may see it in postmodern terms as semantic ambiguity or 
instability. In either case, the multiple meanings inscribed in statements 
and texts derives from both the diversity of human perceptions and from 
the multiple nature of reality itself. Reality is not exhausted by what 
can be 
experienced by sense­perception, as a positivist would maintain. Rather, 
reality consists of a series of graded "planes" or "stations" (rutbah, 
maqam), which run the spectrum between pure Being and pure 
nothingness. At the pole of pure Being is the plane of absolute unity, 
which is the domain of God's preexistent essence. Below this domain is the 
plane of God's Word or Command, the domain of the Logos. Then come 
various lesser stations or planes of the created, contingent world. Some of 
these planes have to do with human psychology and the attainment of 
certain mystical states, and they are often metaphorically called by 
Baha'u'llah "cities" or "valleys," in Persian mystical style. Thus, we have 
the city or plane of rid, wherein the believer radiantly acquiesces in 
whatever God wills for him or her. All this is well­known, of course. But 
the point I want to make here is that Baha'u'llah envisions these various 
planes or stations of reality, whether they be metaphysical or psychological, 
as sites of discourse. A person speaks from some plane and understands 
the discourse of others within the subjective context of that particular 
plane 
or station which he or she inhabits at that moment. A verse of 
scripture, in 
short, will carry a different meaning to different believers, depending on 
what plane they inhabit, or even depending upon what plane they are 
meditating on when considering the verse. 
Any verse of scripture, then, carries an obvious literal sense, along 
with a myriad of metaphorical or subjective significations which will differ 
from believer to believer, and from station to station. A proper exegesis 
would take account of these several semantic dimensions. Thus, when the 
Qur'an represents God as taking an oath by the sun and "by the moon when 
it followeth it!" one may say on the prosaic plane that the Qur'an is 
appealing to the grandeur of nature in order to exalt its Creator. But 
according to Baha'u'llah, such terms as sun and moon also carry a great 
many subjective or metaphorical meanings for the believer who meditates 
upon them. In the station of absolute divine unity, the sun refers to the 
emanations of the Self or the Primal Will upon creation, a reference to 
Neoplatonic conceptions of metaphysics and theology wherein a demiurge 
emanates from God, from whom in turn emanates the contingent world. In 
other stations, on other planes, the sun can refer to prophets, or to imams 
and saints. The potential numbers of referents for the word sun are 
infinite, 
depending upon the station in which the word is considered. Unlike the 
case in postmodernism, these contending significations appear to war with 
one another only if one neglects to take account their various semantic 
levels, which exist in a hierarchical arrangement. Disputes among believers 
about the metaphorical sense of a particular passage might arise if the two 
believers were speaking from, or in the context of, different metaphysical 
or psychological planes. 
This polyvalence or semantic ambiguity is what makes it impossible 
for any believer to promulgate an authoritative interpretation of 
scripture. 
Any individual's interpretation would be bounded by his or her stage of 
spiritual development, and readers dwelling on other planes would interpret 
in a wholly different manner the proof­texts of which the exegete made 
use. 
The ability of `Abdu'l­Baha and Shoghi Effendi to interpret scripture 
authoritatively for the community appears primarily to have concerned the 
legal or doctrinal implications of the verses' outward meanings; neither 
suggested that he had exhausted the verses' esoteric meanings. Even this 
central teaching authority is now absent in the Baha'i Faith, leaving even 
greater scope for a decentralization of theology. With the passing of the 
guardianship, the new leadership of the Baha'i Faith, the Universal House 
of Justice (elected in 1963), has the prerogative only of legislating on 
matters not covered by scripture. The authority to interpret scripture was 
confined solely to the Guardian, and the Universal House of Justice, Shoghi 
Effendi wrote, would never "infringe upon the sacred and prescribed 
domain" of interpretation. 
The multiple meanings inscribed in texts, then, requires that Baha'is 
tolerate a wide variety of theologies within their faith, recognizing the 
subjective element in exegesis. I do not myself find this prospect at all 
problematic. All world­religions have in fact been very diverse, but their 
ecclesiastical representatives have often attempted to deny that diversity 
and to play upon the community's anxieties about ambiguity in order to 
gain more power by persecuting those they branded heretics. Islam, for 
instance, encompasses persons in West Africa who have essentially the 
same mindset and basic beliefs as their neighbors who follow indigenous 
African religions, as well as encompassing Indian Muslim villagers who, in 
their illiterate ecumenism, often call upon Hindu deities for help. 
Admittedly, modern literacy, printing, and mass media are making inroads 
against this kind of localism and popular syncretism. But for most of 
history, the world­religions have been little more than umbrellas under 
which all sorts of folk and local practices were pursued. The Qur'an clearly 
meant something different to the Gambian Muslims than it did to those in 
South India. A fundamentalist might argue that these mostly illiterate 
believers misunderstood their own religion. But that would require the 
absurd conclusion that the vast majority of Muslims have been daily 
misunderstanding Islam for 1400 years. The alternative explanation, that a 
world­religion necessarily involves the subsuming under a few broad 
symbols of millions of localistic subjectivities, is hateful to 
fundamentalists 
because it challenges their conviction that there is only one, literalist 
way to 
read scripture. 
In matters of theology, Baha'is have the magnificent opportunity to 
let a thousand flowers bloom. Many of the otherwise admirable saintly 
figures in human history, from St. Augustine to Sir Thomas More, have 
been guilty of having heretics burned to death. This hypocrisy was forced 
upon them by the vain belief that it was possible and necessary to achieve 
an absolute creedal consensus within their religious community. Baha'u'llah 
himself made this sort of ugly Inquisition wholly unnecessary by 
recognizing the ambiguity and semantic instability of texts, even revealed 
ones. His theory of exegesis deserves a more rigorous investigation than I 
can offer here. I think the idea of plane­specific semantic universes 
offers a 
fascinating area for the interplay of Baha'! ideas with those of modern 
philosophers of language such as Wittgenstein, Eco, and Derrida. But the 
most important and lasting contribution of Baha'u'llah's exegetical 
principles may be the creation, at last, of a self­consciously diverse world 
religion, which achieves unity, not by Inquisition, but by tolerance.

Appendix I 
Qur'an 91, The Surah of the Sun

By the sun and its noonday brightness! 
By the moon when it followeth it! 
By the day when it revealeth its glory! 
By the night when it enshroudeth it! 
By the heaven and that which built it! 
By the earth and that which spread it forth! 
By a soul and Him who fashioned it! 
And informed it of its wickedness and its piety; 
Blessed now is he who hath kept it pure, 
and undone is he who hath corrupted it! 
Thamud in their insolence rejected their prophet, 
When the greatest wretch among them rushed up: 
Said the Apostle of God to them, "The Camel of God! Let her drink." 
But they treated him as an impostor and hamstrung her. 
So their Lord destroyed them for their crime, and visited all alike: 
Nor feared He the issue thereof.

[Translation based on Rodwell, but modified by Cole, sometimes with 
reference to Arberry.]

Appendix II

Baha'u'llah's

Commentary on the Surah of the Sun

(Provisional Translation by 
Juan R.I. Cole, University of Michigan 
Revised 4 April 1994)

In the Name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate 
Praise be to God, Who hath set the dove of eloquence, perched 
among the twigs of the tree of explanation, to weaving her divers 
melodies. 
Her lyrics tell of how there is no God but God, Who hath brought new 
beings into existence, and created the contingent world by means of His 
Primal Will, whereby He hath caused to exist all that was and yet shall 
be. 
May God be glorified, Who hath embellished the heavens of reality with the 
sun of metaphorical meanings and mystical insight, as inscribed by the Pen 
of the Most High. Sovereignty belongeth to God, the Omnipotent, the 
Help in Peril, the Self­Subsisting. He hath brought forth the Most Great 
Ocean, which uniteth in itself the waters flowing from the spring of the 
letter H, which flow into the Most Ancient Name (Baha), from which the 
Primal Point was separated off, and whereby the unifying Word hath 
become manifest and both spiritual truth and religious law were revealed. 
The upholders of the divine unity broke through its surface and soared up 
into the heavens of ecstasy and divine presence. The sincere ones thus 
attained the beatific vision of their Lord, the All­Glorious, the Devoted 
Friend. 
Then peace and blessings be upon the Dawning­Place of the Most 
Beautiful Names and the Most Exalted Attributes, in every letter of Whose 
appellation the Divine Names are treasured up, and whereby existence 
itself, whether visible or invisible, hath been adorned. He was called 
Muhammad in the realm of names, and Ahmad in the Kingdom of eternity. 
And peace be upon His House and His Companions, from this day until 
that upon which the Tongue of Grandeur shall speak forth. Sovereignty 
belongs to God, the One, the All­Conquering. 
Your letter reached Us, and We have perused it, with all its 
allusions. We beseech God to aid thee in doing that which He loves, that 
He might bring thee nigh unto the shores of that sea from which rise up the 
waves of the Name of thy Lord, the Most High. Every drop thereof saith, 
"There is no God but God, the Creator of all Names and of the Heavens 
above." 
O questioner, if thou seekest the Sacred Fold and the Sinai of divine 
proximity, then cleanse thy heart of all else but Him. Remove the sandals 
of thy suppositions and idle fancies, that thou mightest see with the eye of 
thine heart the effulgences of God, the Lord of the Throne and of the 
Earth. For this is the day of unveiling and witnessing. Separation hath 
passed away, and union hath arrived. This is from the bounty of thy Lord, 
the Cherished, the Beloved. Leave posing questions and seeking answers 
to the people of this earth, and ascend by the wings of abnegation into 
those skies wherein thou shalt draw nigh to the clemency of thy Lord, the 
Merciful, the Compassionate. 
Say: O people, the Primal Point hath been revealed, the Universal 
Word hath been brought to fruition, and the kingdom of God, the Help in 
Peril, the Self­Subsisting, hath been made manifest. Say: O people, ye 
disport yourselves in a puddle, oblivious to the sweet sea that billoweth 
before your faces. What aileth ye, that ye comprehend not? Do ye speak 
forth with the knowledge ye possess when He hath appeared, Who knew 
the Point of Knowledge that generated all things, and to which they all 
returned? From this Point did issue God's own words of wisdom, and 
sciences that yet remain concealed in the treasuries of the purity of thy 
Lord, the Exalted, the Almighty. Leave allusions to those trapped in them, 
and set out toward that station wherein ye shall perceive the fragrances of 
knowledge from His heavens. Thus counseleth ye this Servant, every 
member, every artery, of whose body testifieth that there is no God save 
He. He ever subsisted in the zenith of His might and glory, and in the 
heights of His honor and radiance. The Ones He sent with truth and 
guidance are the Dawning­places of His revelation to all creation, and the 
Daysprings of His inspiration among His servants. Through them were the 
mysteries unveiled, and the divine Laws legislated, and by Them was 
realized the Cause of God, the All­Powerful, the Mighty, the 
Unconstrained. No God is there but He, the Omniscient, the All­Knowing. 
O questioner, know thou that the people pride themselves upon 
knowledge, and praise it, whereas this Servant complaineth of it. For 
without it Baha would not have been imprisoned in Akka with extreme 
abasement, nor would He have drunk from the cup of woes proffered by 
His enemies. Eloquence hath banished Me, and the science of rhetoric 
brought Me low. My mention of conjunction [union with God] hath torn 
Me limb from limb. My succinctness hath provoked a long­winded 
affliction, grammar hath deprived Me of all comfort, and syntax hath 
disordered the pleasures of My heart. My knowledge of God's mysteries 
hath become a chain about my neck. Given all this, how can I respond to 
your question concerning the verses revealed from the heavens of majesty 
and grandeur, especially since the hearts of the discerning have failed to 
comprehend them, and the minds of the sagacious never soared into the 
heavens of their meanings? 
My pinions have been clipped by the shears of envy and rancor. 
Should this broken bird find wings, He would fly into the sky of rhetoric 
and exposition and warble on the twigs of the tree of knowledge a song 
that would lift up the hearts of the sincere ones into the firmament of 
longing and attraction. They would then witness the effulgences of their 
Lord, the Mighty, the Bestower. At this time, however, I am forbidden to 
uncover what was hidden, release what was repressed or speak openly of 
what was concealed. We must withhold it rather than revealing it. Were 
We to speak of what God hath taught Us by His grace, the people would 
back away from Us and flee, save for those who have imbibed the elixir of 
life from the chalice of the words of their Lord, the All­Merciful. 
For, every word sent down from the heavens of revelation upon the 
prophets and messengers hath been filled with the sacred waters of 
figurative meaning, explanation, wisdom and exposition. Blessed are they 
who drink thereof. Since We have perceived in thee the fragrance of love, 
We shall reply to thee briefly and with concision. Thus mightest thou sever 
thyself from those who interpret all scripture metaphorically, who have 
opposed the truth and its mystery and cling instead to their own 
conjectures and vain imaginings, even though aforetime it was revealed that 
"Conjecture availeth nothing against the truth" and in another place 
"Some conjecture is a sin." 
Know that the sun mentioned in this blessed surah hath divers 
meanings. At the level of primacy and unity, and in the city of pre­existent 
divinity, it is one of God's mysteries, one of his sanctuaries, stored 
away in 
His treasure hold, concealed in His knowledge, and sealed by God's own 
seal. No one is informed thereof save the One, the Unique, the 
Omniscient. 
For in this station the sun signifieth the Primal Will and the 
illumination of 
divine oneness that by means of its Self sheddeth its effulgence upon the 
horizons. Whoever approached it was illumined thereby just as, when the 
sun riseth, its rays encompass the world, all save those surfaces that remain 
veiled from it by some obstacle. Consider the land unencumbered by trellis 
or wall: it is irradiated by the sun, whereas walls cast a shadow that 
prevents the earth from receiving this effulgence. In the same way, behold 
the sun of reality. It sheddeth the light of meanings and explanation upon 
beings. Whoso turneth toward it is rendered luminous by its rays, and such 
a one's heart gloweth with its light. Whoso turneth away will never have 
any portion therein, for the veil of self and passion hath intervened, and 
such a one remaineth far from the emanations of the sun of reality that 
flashed forth from the horizons of the heaven of heavens. 
Then, in another station, it refereth to the prophets and pure 
ones of 
God, for they are the suns of His names and attributes amid his creation. 
Were it not for them, no one would have been illumined by the mystical 
knowledge of God. As you see, every nation on earth hath been 
enlightened by one of these brightly shining suns. Whoso denieth them 
remaineth deprived. For instance, those of God's servants who followed 
the Christ were irradiated by the sun of his knowledge, until the 
luminary of 
the horizons dawned over the Hijaz. Those who denied him [Muhammad] 
among the Christians and other communities were thereby deprived of that 
sun and its rays. Their very repudiation of him became a wall that locked 
out the light emanating from the horizon of the Cause of their Lord, the 
Omnipotent, the Succorer. 
On yet another level of reality, it refereth to the friends and lovers 
of God, since they are the suns of authority among his creatures. Without 
them, gloom would have encompassed the entire earth, save those thy Lord 
willed to escape it. The word hath many other referents. Were ten scribes 
to come into Our presence and take down Our utterances for a year, or 
two years, they would in the end confess their inability to keep pace. Were 
it not for the denials of some ignoramuses, We would have discoursed at 
greater length, and the revered Pen of God would have gone beyond the 
mention of limitations. 
Know assuredly that just as thou firmly believest that the Word of 
God, exalted be His glory, endureth for ever, thou must, likewise, believe 
with undoubting faith that its meaning can never be exhausted. They 
who are its appointed interpreters, they whose hearts are the 
repositories of 
its secrets are, however, the only ones who can comprehend its manifold 
wisdom. Whoso, while reading the Sacred Scriptures, is tempted to 
choose therefrom whatever may suit him with which to challenge the 
authority of the Representative of God among men, is, indeed, as one dead, 
though to outward seeming he may walk and converse with his neighbors, 
and share with them their food and drink. 
Oh, would that the world could believe Me! Were all the things 
that lie enshrined within the heart of Baha, and which the Lord, His God, 
the Lord of all names, hath taught Him, to be unveiled to mankind, every 
man on earth would be dumbfounded. 
How great the multitude of truths which the garment of words can 
never contain! How vast the number of such verities as no expression can 
adequately describe, whose significance can never be unfolded, and to 
which not even the remotest allusion can be made! How manifold are the 
truths which must remain unuttered until the appointed time is come! Even 
as it hath been said: "Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, 
nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every 
timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear 
it." 
Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of the 
capacity of the repositories of the light of Our knowledge, and the 
recipients of Our hidden grace. We beseech God to strengthen thee with 
His power, and enable thee to recognize Him Who is the Source of all 
knowledge, that thou mayest detach thyself from all human learning, for 
"what would it profit any man to strive after learning when he hath already 
found and recognized Him Who is the object of all knowledge?" Cleave to 
the Root of knowledge, and to Him Who is the Fountain thereof, that thou 
mayest find thyself independent of all who claim to be well versed in human 
learning, and whose claim no clear proof, nor the testimony of any 
enlightening book, can support. 
In another station, it refereth to the most beautiful names of God, 
insofar as every one of His names constituteth a sun shining above the 
horizon. Consider the name of God, "the knowing." It is a sun that 
dawneth above the horizon of the will of thy Lord, the All­Merciful, its 
rays bathing the bodies of all things in the known universe. Thou wilt find 
every correct science among those persons of learning who have not given 
in to their passions and base desires, who have acknowledged the path of 
the divine decree and held fast to the firm handle of faith. Know that such 
a one is in the right, and that his knowledge is a ray that emanated from the 
light of this sun. We have, verily, interpreted the names and elucidated 
their mysteries, effulgences, and coruscations, their externality and 
internality, the secrets of their letters and the wisdom of their composition 
in an epistle that We penned for one of Our friends who had inquired 
concerning the names and what they contained. 
Know that the Word of God, in the primal reality and the first 
station, compriseth those meanings that most of the people have failed to 
perceive. We bear witness that His words are complete, and in every one 
of these words lie concealed meanings apprehended by no one but Himself, 
and from Him is knowledge of the Book. No God is there but Him, the 
Almighty, the Omnipotent, the Bestower. 
Those who wrote commentaries on the Qur'an fell into two sorts. 
The first neglected the literal sense in favor of an esoteric exegesis. The 
other interpreted literally and ignored its metaphorical dimension. Were 
We to review all their sayings and statements, thou wouldst be overtaken 
with fatigue and unable to read what We have written for thee. Therefore, 
We have declined to mention them here. Blessed are they that cling both 
to the literal and to the esoteric, for those are His servants that have 
believed in the universal Word. 
Know that whoso clingeth to the outward sense of the words, 
leaving aside their esoteric significance, is simply ignorant. And whoso 
concentrateth on the metaphorical sense to the exclusion of the prosaic 
meaning is heedless. Only the one who intepreteth the verses esoterically 
while harmonizing this reading with the literal meaning can be said to be a 
complete scholar. This maxim hath dawned from the horizon of 
knowledge, so know thou its value and cherish its excellence. Verily, we 
mention Our object allusively in our words and intimations. Blessed is the 
one who graspeth Our intent and arriveth at the goal. 
Say: O people, the nightingale warbleth upon the twigs, the royal 
cockerel crieth out with wisdom and utterance, and the peacock spreadeth 
its feathers in paradise. How long will ye sleep upon the couch of 
heedlessness and transgression? Rise from the bed of selfish passion and 
advance toward the dawning­place of the compassion of thy Lord, the 
Sovereign of Eternity, the Revealer of Names. Beware lest ye oppose Him, 
who calleth you to God and to His precepts. Fear ye God and be not of 
the negligent.

